GNU Health Millennium Development Goal # 6 Module
#################################################

health_mdg6 is a GNU Health module that incorporates the Millennium Development
Goal # 6, to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and Tuberculosis

The United Nations signed in September 2000 the Millennium Declaration, to
fight poverty, hunger, disease, illiteracy, environmental degradation, and
discrimination against women.

The Millennium Development Goals (MDG) has derived from the Millennium
declaration and it has 8 goals. MDG 6 focuses on HIV/AIDS, Malaria and
Tuberculosis.

GNU Solidario believes that Free Software is a key factor to accomplish these
goals. GNU Health, the Free Health and Hospital Information System will help
the health centers, researches, NGOs and professionals and volunteers to
eradicate these devastating diseases.

GNU Health will incorporate the specific functionality to help prevent,
diagnose, treat and control each of these devastating diseases.

The health_mdg6 module will maintain the multi-disciplinary approach, providing
tools to the social worker, nurse, biochemist, laboratory , pharmacist,
epidemiologist and physician, integrating the health professional into the
community.

So, for example, upon a new possible case of active Tuberculosis (TB), GNU
Health will execute the following actions : Detect and notify the contacts of
the patient; Start profilaxis treatment on contacts ; Create a new laboratory
order for culture and antibiogram and check for the strain resistance ; verify
the DOTS (Direct Observed Treatment Short) on the patient ; Check the stock for
the PPD test-kits and do a forecast for the existing anti-tuberculosis
medicaments; Check for availability of special rooms if there is need for
hospitalization; inform the health authorities of a new case; start a new
prevention campaign.
